=Introduction=

The Records Authority (RA) is an open-source toolkit that provides all the basic capabilities needed to build and maintain a web-accessible retention schedule.  With RA it is possible to build a schedule from records inventory data, or by loading pre-existing retention information. 



For the purposes of describing RA, the process of creating retention schedule content will be broken down as follows:

 # Inventory Phase: Collecting data about a department’s structure, information management practices and 
 # Research Phase: Documenting any research conducted to determine retention requirements and/or the basis of retention decisions;
 # Publication Phase: Editing and publishing a finished schedule(s) in web-accessible, keyword searchable form.



Records Authority provides the following functions:

==Data Collection Forms==

RA allows a survey function that is designed to elicit input from organizational units about their information practices and holdings.  The survey information is intended to give the records manager enough information to plan and schedule the more in-depth task of the traditional records inventory interview.  



RA also provides records managers to store information obtained from interviews.  In addition to fields for standard descriptive information, the inventory form contains fields to indicate which records are vital and which contain personally identifiable information (PII).

==Retention Research and Decision Forms==

RA enables the records manager to document the results of research and the basis of decisions about retention periods, whether in the form of legal citations or narrative text.  At this time, RA does not link or connect to outside sources of legal citations although URLs can be included in text fields.

==Schedule Creation, Editing, Publication, and Searching Features==

Use the RA dashboard to keep the retention schedule up to date. New entries may be added individually through the dashboard, or uploaded from a spreadsheet maintained offline.  A record group must be marked ready for “publication” for it to become web-accessible for search and display.